Hey guys welcome back.
So last time we are showing you a little demo of how we can recognize when one of the buttons is pressed
So for example our register Burns pressed.
Nothing you do is show you how you can actually get the values that users put into these text boxes.
Obviously with the Redstone form we want to take the user name first name last name or this and say
I would do that.
If you scroll down to where you created You're a steam a steam elements.
You see we have these name attributes here in the name too which of what we use to access the data in
the text areas.
So for example to get a user name use this name equals usernames.
Copy that scroll up to our block here for when the register Burns pressed not a log in one.
And it brings the buttons pressed and will create a variable in BHB which is done with the dollar sign
so we can say user name.
So if you see a dollar sign that means it's a variable same in some other language you might have seen
far Great ever.
So my looks then like your VaR username.
OK.
Or some languages.
You say the type So you'd say lock string user name in dhp you just say a dollar sign.
There's no other word than that.
So a great username variable and this is an equal dollar sign and the score post.
And inside the square brackets you put the names the name in my example was using him so I'll use that.
And just to show you a word that I actually echo which Remember that means print username.
Now if I go back to here across the page and I will actually submit this form.
So it's our race.
Can you go for some other values in an active member these need to be filled in for it to actually submit
the form.
So in the past where did the matter WHAT it is and click sign up and you see at the top airco the username
the value because I'm using a field which was access like this.
OK.
And this is really that simple.
That is how we get new data from the fields.
Now we do is process the data.
So we have to make sure it's clean and I'll show you what that means very soon.
But we have to look at processing the data before we can insert it into the database.
So get rid of this Ekers block right here.
And this show the couple of things we we're going to do to the user name to make sure we're happy with
the way it is.
Before we send it to the database so we're going to do this type username again so exactly the same
and three equals drip.
Tax strip tax is a psap function and I'll show what that means in a minute.
Use the name so Strip tags strips all the extra amounts that might be within a string.
So if a string if there if they put this in the username and some decks maybe but they also put something
like this like a burn or something like that sized elements it will get rid of these cases we don't
want them to eliminate him elements to the database because people can manipulate your site.
They can essentially insert their own elements to your page.
So we stripped down.
But we're going to do something similar.
One more thing is user those same variable equals ustr and a score of place.
So string replace and replace all spaces so do double quotes.
Space comma and then empty quotes.
So in two single grates there and the third round just use your name.
So what is going to do is look for all the spaces that appear in his name and replace it with an empty
string.
This string replace function takes webs in the first round to find all occurrences of this.
So if we if we did a Replace All the curtains would be they would take every single A find the place
it would be.
We're going to take every single space we find in their name and replace it with an empty string.
Nothing.
That means if they enter a username like this it will get replaced.
And that can we don't them.
Some men use names with spaces to base.
And that's all the sanitising we're going to do for these in them.
So we're going to do the same for the rest of the values for first name last name.
So you can essentially copy and paste this again.
So what username is this space underneath.
Do this for first name like that and the name for first name of call the first name.
Take your name put in there for post first name and the place or the user name variables here with a
first name.
I'm going to do one more thing with this which is just uppercase the first letter of the string.
So you can just say first name the equals.
You see first name the function you see first is all in lowercase and then inside that but S.T. are
to lower.
And then in side they're to a first name.
So this will uppercase the first character so they enter this for their name that the first character
would be a case and then it being set its data into a database like that.
So this part in the middle though s TR to lower string to lower converts all the string to lowercase
first reason we're doing that is because if we didn't do the string to lower part and they entered this
with an uppercase C maybe like that the first carriage would be a case that would be left with that.
So before we were case first character we make all the rest of the string lowercase circle circumvent
all cultures lowercase and then we have became the first character.
Mister what that is.
And that's it.
We basically do that the same for the rest of the fields.
But instead of doing this for every single one we could copy and paste this for every single one so
I do the same for last name email.
But we'd be repeating a lot of the code.
So to say this repeating code that's something we don't want to do we can just create function at top
of the disease for us.
So create a function which is something we can call over and over again and call this sanitize form
using name brackets.
It's going to take one parameter which is input text.
If you haven't done functions before bed with this because you learn about functions as we go from just
by doing this so even if you don't understand what fonz's are yet no doubt you'll learn about these
as we go.
And if you really want you can go and look it up online there's loads of resources for it but you'd
be finding carry on and you'll you'll understand how these work just by doing these examples so bear
with it even if you don't know what this is.
So we've created this what's called sanitized form username and you can basically copy and paste these
two lines here.
So put them inside there and then input text is the text we're going to be performing their sanitisation
on.
So we will take whatever they whatever they pass into this function.
We know strip the dog's And then we're going to replace all the spaces with an edgy character and then
just return input text by that and why we've done that is now instead of having those lines built over
the years and then we can just call this functions with that name we call the function like this size
form user name and in brackets passiveness.
So instead of having all those that those that are having like three lines below user name which we
just had we now only of the warn and we could do the same for the rest of the string.
So copy and paste this function is slightly different for username because we don't uppercase the first
character but change the user name to string.
This would just be a generic string sanitisation one as opposed to a username sanitisation function.
So these are strings out ization function and we can basically copy those lines from below those three
right and then put those in there and to keep the return part.
Keep the return impact text and copy in place and replace first name with input text.
All these places and that's it.
So three forms.
So the sartaj form string function and the same as usernames stripped down and replaces their spaces
with the empty character.
They also posted the first letter and now we can just call this function in a similar way.
Brackets.
That and get rid of that.
Now is down four lines at least for every single field.
We can just have the one line for all of them.
So the do last name here last name and this is going to be last name what else is there.
There's our email so you can just call this email and this can be email.
I know I know.
I remember the names that we used for these.
This would be emailed to me because remember I have two of them.
For them to control and every now and then two more lines for password password is going to be its own
functions can be very similar.
It's just a very short once I copy one of these does matter which is create a new function.
This is going to sanitize form password and this is a simpler one.
All we do in this is just strip the tags.
We don't replace any spaces or anything because they can have spaces in their password if they want.
And that's it.
So we have a new function sometimes one password which only strips detax.
OK.
So copy and paste the name of the startime form password function and was set to do the same thing as
you did above.
So password equals sanitized form password and in brackets just docusign and the score post you could
just copy and paste this I know but we type it out to password like that and copy and base out one line
below in issuing the password to and then you go just like that we've cleared the data and it's in a
very neat inefficient way because without doing the functions this way we have had all of these lines
repeated for every single input.
So this is a much neater way of doing it much more organized way.
So that's it.
We now handle the flon submission and we clean the data now ready to actually do something with it.
So if you want to go and test it out you can go back to here type something in.
Doesn't matter what.
Just fill it just fill these out space where there's no errors when we submit the form.
OK.
So you shouldn't see anything.
No our message is hopefully there.
So the fact we didn't see anything is good if we saw a billion messages in here that's for you know
be a problem.